# T6 -Google-File-Sync
This is a variation of task T4, but here you will use the Google Drive API and do an actual backing up of files. As before, the client collects the list of files in the given directory. However, instead of sending it to the server, it fetches the list of so far backed up files from a predefined Google Drive location (like a current backup manifest file). The client compares the two lists locally to establish the list of new files that need to be backed up. These files are then copied to a predefined Google drive folder.
Follow the lecture notes and Internet tutorials to see how to authorize your (Java) application to use the Google REST interface to Drive.
Also, it is wise to test and run this task on a small directory on your computer (and with fake, not real data!), you should show that it works and not use it to inadvertently copy your whole disk to Google drive (this statement is made from past experience, not out of thin air ;)).
You will see this in the progress of solving the task - the API for copying files may get a bit cumbersome (depending on your approach) when it comes to MIME types of the different files copied, so it is OK to limit the operation of your program to just one directory with just one type of files with a well-defined MIME type (for example, JPG picture files).
Note on the Purpose
Obviously, the Google infrastructure and your OS client applications, if you use any, have the file synchronisation built in, so the backing up can be solved simply by asking the Drive OS application to sync your files. However, the purpose of this task is to practice programming against the Drive API, not syncing the files.
